>> Woodruff: SUNNI INSURGENTS IN
IRAQ PRESSED AHEAD TODAY WITH AN
ASSAULT ON THE COUNTRY'S BIGGEST
OIL REFINERY.
WE JOIN THE DEBATE OVER WHAT THE
U.S. SHOULD DO, WITH DEMOCRATIC
AT KAINE AND REPUBLICAN
SENATOR JOHN MCCAIN.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY,
GENERAL MOTORS C.E.O. MARY BARRA
FACES TOUGH QUESTIONS FROM
LAWMAKERS OVER DEADLY DEFECTS,
ON THE HEELS OF THE COMPANY'S
MOST RECENT MAJOR RECALL.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S SOME
PEOPLE'S WORST FEAR, GETTING
BITTEN BY A POISONOUS SNAKE.
ABOUT 100,000 PEOPLE AROUND THE
WORLD DIE FROM THEM EVERY YEAR.
>> VENOMOUS SNAKES ATTACK MORE
THAN TWO MILLION PEOPLE A YEAR
IN RURAL PARTS OF INDIA, ASIA,
AFRICA, CENTRAL AND SOUTH
AMERICA.
WITHOUT TIMELY MEDICAL
TREATMENT, PATIENTS WILL DIE.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT
IN LIBYA TODAY DEMANDED THE
U.S. HAND OVER THE NEWLY
CAPTURED SUSPECT IN THE ATTACK
ON U.S. DIPLOMATS IN BENGHAZI.
AHMED ABU KHATTALA IS NOW HEADED
TO THE U.S. BY SHIP, AFTER HE
WAS CAPTURED OVER THE WEEKEND BY
U.S. SPECIAL FORCES IN LIBYA.
THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT CONDEMNED
THE RAID THAT SEIZED HIM, AND
INSISTED HE SHOULD BE TRIED IN
LIBYA, UNDER LIBYAN LAWS.
>> Woodruff: THE NEWLY-ELECTED
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE OFFERED A
CEASE-FIRE PLAN TODAY, TO END
THE VIOLENCE PLAGUING ITS
EASTERN BORDER WITH RUSSIA.
PETRO POROSHENKO DISCUSSED THE
PROPOSAL BY PHONE WITH RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN, WHO
WELCOMED THE MOVE.
IT INCLUDES AMNESTY FOR PRO-
RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS IF THEY LAY
DOWN THEIR ARMS.
HE UNVEILED THE 14-STEP PLAN IN
KIEV.
>> ( translated ): I CAN SAY
THAT THE PERIOD OF CEASE-FIRE
WILL BE RATHER SHORT.
WE EXPECT THAT ILLEGAL ARMED
GROUPS WILL THEN IMMEDIATELY
DISARM.
THEN ORDER WILL BE REACHED,
INCLUDING JOINT PATROLLING
AGAINST MARAUDERS, CRIMINALS,
AND BANDITS WHO ARE
DESTABILIZING THE SITUATION IN
THE EAST.
>> Woodruff: POROSHENKO STOPPED
SHORT OF ANNOUNCING PRECISELY
WHEN A CEASE-FIRE WOULD BE
DECLARED.
BUT UKRAINE'S DEFENSE MINISTER
SAID IT COULD BEGIN WITHIN DAYS.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE CANDIDATES
IN AFGHANISTAN'S PRESIDENTIAL
RUN-OFF DEMANDED OFFICIALS STOP
COUNTING BALLOTS TODAY, CLAIMING
SATURDAY'S VOTE WAS RIGGED.
ABDULLAH ABDULLAH ACCUSED HIS
OPPONENT, ASHRAF GHANI OF
ENGINEERING FRAUD.
ABDULLAH ALSO ANNOUNCED HIS TEAM
WAS SUSPENDING RELATIONS WITH
THE ELECTION COMMISSION,
ACCUSING IT OF INTERFERING IN
THE VOTE AS WELL.
THE COMMISSION REFUSED TO STOP
THE COUNT, AND SAID EVERYONE
SHOULD WAIT FOR FINAL RESULTS
DUE ON JULY 22ND.
>> Woodruff: JAPAN PASSED A LAW
TO BAN MOST CHILD PORNOGRAPHY
TODAY, THE LAST OF THE WORLD'S
MAJOR INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MAKE
IT ILLEGAL.
THE JAPANESE PARLIAMENT'S UPPER
HOUSE PUSHED THE LEGISLATION
THROUGH.
IT AMENDS AN EARLIER LAW THAT
BANNED PEOPLE FROM CREATING AND
DISTRIBUTING CHILD PORNOGRAPHY
BUT NOT OWNING IT.
UNDER THE NEW LAW, SEXUALLY
EXPLICIT DEPICTIONS OF CHILDREN
IN COMICS, ANIMATION AND
COMPUTER GRAPHICS ARE STILL
PERMITTED.
>> Ifill: AFTER ALMOST TWO
MONTHS WIT
THREE STATES ARE RESUMING LETHAL
INJECTIONS.
PROBLEMS WITH ONE SUCH INJECTION
IN OKLAHOMA IN APRIL POSTPONED
DEATH PENALTY ENFORCEMENT ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
OVERNIGHT, BOTH GEORGIA AND
MISSOURI CARRIED OUT EXECUTIONS,
WITH NO COMPLICATIOEP
A THIRD EXECUTION IS SCHEDULED
IN FLORIDA TONIGHT.
NONE OF THOSE STATES WILL
DISCLOSE WHERE THEY OBTAIN THEIR
LETHAL INJECTION DRUGS, OR IF
THEY HAVE BEEN TESTED.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. FEDERAL
RESERVE IS SLOWING ITS BOND
BUYING BASED ON ITS ASSESSMENT
THAT THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY IS ON
TRACK.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME AT THE END
OF THE CENTRAL BANK'S
TWO-DAY POLICY REVIEW MEETING.
BUT IT GAVE NO INDICATION WHEN
IT WILL START RAISING ITS
BENCHMARK SHORT-TERM INTEREST
RATE.
CHAIRWOMAN JANET YELLEN SAID THE
FED IS TAKING A WAIT-AND-SEE
APPROACH.
>> THERE IS UNCERTAINTY ABOUT
MONETARY POLICY.
THE APPROPRIATE PATH OF POLICY,
THE TIMING AND PACE OF INTEREST
RATE INCREASES OUGHT TO AND I
BELIEVE WILL RESPOND TO
UNFOLDING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS.
IF THOSE WERE TO PROVE FASTER
THAN THE COMMITTEE EXPECTS, IT
WOULD BE LOGICAL TO EXPECT A
MORE RAPID INCREASE IN THE FED
FUNDS RATE.
>> Woodruff: THE FED ALSO SCALED
BACK ITS ECONOMIC GROWTH
FORECAST FOR 2014, CITING THE
DAMAGING EFFECTS OF THE LONG,
HARSH WINTER.
MARKETS ON WALL STREET REACTED
POSITIVELY TO THE FED NEWS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 98 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,906.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 25 POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 4,362.
THE S&P ADDED 15 POINTS TO CLOSE
JUST UNDER 1,957.
>> Ifill: THE U.S. PATENT OFFICE
RULED TODAY THAT SIX OF THE
WASHINGTON REDSKINS TRADEMARK
REGISTRATIONS SHOULD BE
CANCELED.
THE BOARD SAID THE NICKNAME IS
DISPARAGING OF NATIVE AMERICANS.
THE DECISION DOES NOT FORCE THE
TEAM TO GIVE UP IT'S NAME, BUT
IT WILL MAKE IT HARDER FOR THEM
TO GO AFTER OTHERS USING THE
NAME FOR COMMERCIAL GAIN.
THE FOOTBALL TEAM QUICKLY
ANNOUNCED THEY'LL APPEAL THE
DECISION.
>> Woodruff: A RARE ONE-CENT
POSTAGE STAMP FROM A 19TH
CENTURY BRITISH COLONY HAS
REGAINED ITS STATUS AS THE
WORLD'S MOST VALUABLE.
THE BRITISH GUIANA ONE-CENT
MAGENTA IS THE ONLY ONE OF ITS
KIND KNOWN TO SURVIVE.
IT SOLD LAST NIGHT FOR A RECORD
$9.5 MILLION DOLLARS.
THE NEW YORK AUCTION HOUSE WAS
PACKED WITH INTEREST, BUT AN
ANONYMOUS TELEPHONE BIDDER WON
OUT.
>> IT SETS A BRAND NEW WORLD
RECORD FOR A STAMP OBVIOUSLY.
SO FAR ABOVE ANY PRIOR PRICE FOR
A STAMP.
IT'S GOING TO BE A HARD ONE TO
BEAT.
AND IT PROBABLY WON'T BE BEATEN
UNTIL THIS STAMP COMES UP FOR
SALE YET AGAIN IN THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: FOR STAMP
COLLECTORS, THE AUCTION WAS A
RARE CHANCE TO SEE THE STAMP.
IT HASN'T BEEN ON VIEW PUBLICLY
SINCE 1986.
>> Ifill: IN WORLD CUP SOCCER
NEWS, THE DEFENDING CHAMPION,
SPAIN, WAS ELIMINATED AFTER A
STUNNING LOSS TO CHILE.
THEY WERE SHUT OUT TWO TO ZERO.
SPAIN HAS BEEN A SOCCER
POWERHOUSE OVER THE PAST SIX
YEARS, WINNING THE WORLD CUP
TITLE IN 2010 AS WELL TWO
EUROPEAN CHAMPIONSHIPS.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
AS INSURGENTS IN IRAQ TAKE AIM
AT A MAJOR OIL REFINERY,
SENATORS TIM KAINE AND JOHN
McCAIN DISCUSS THE U.S. RESPONSE
TO THE CRISIS.
THEN, G.M.'S C.E.O. FACES
LAWMAKERS OVER DEADLY CAR
DEFECTS.
THE SEARCH FOR THE HOLY GRAIL OF
SNAKEBITE ANTIDOTES.
AND HOW PRESIDENT OBAMA IS USING
THE STROKE OF A PEN TO GET
AROUND CONGRESS.
>> Woodruff: THE CRISIS IN IRAQ
CONTINUED TO ESCALATE TODAY, AS
SUNNI MILITANTS PUSHED ON
TOWARDS BAGHDAD AND BATTLED WITH
GOVERNMENT FORCES AT THE
COUNTRY'S MAIN OIL REFINERY.
WE HAVE AN ON-THE-GROUND REPORT
FROM JONATHAN RUGMAN OF
INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS.
>> Reporter: TO SOME IT WAS
OCCUPATION BUT TO OTHERS
LIBERATION.
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS PARADE
AMERICAN VEHICLES AFTER SEIZING
THE LARGEST OIL REFINERY MEN OF
ISIS IN HUNDREDS.
"MAY GOD SUPPORT YOU" THIS CROWD
SHOUTED.
ONE JIHADIST FILMED WHAT HE
CLAIMED WAS SMOKE FROM A DOWNED
GOVERNMENT HELICOPTER NEARBY.
THE REFINERY IN CONTROL BY
REVOLUTIONARIES HE DECLARED.
BUT GOVERNMENT SAID OTHERWISE.
>> ( translated ): TODAY WE
REPELLED ATTEMPT BY ISIS TO
ATTACK REFINERY.
>> Reporter: BAIJI ACCOUNTS FOR
QUARTER OF IRAQ'S DOMESTIC
REFI O
IF ATTACKED AGAIN, COULD TRIGGER
ENERGY CRISIS.
BEFORE SURRENDERING, THERE WERE
HEAVY LOSSES.
IN BAGHDAD, NOURI AL-MALIKI THE
PRIME MINISTER TRIED TO SOUND
UPBEAT.
>> WE HAVE ABSORBED MOMENTUM OF
SETBACK AND WILL CONTINUE
DEALING HEAVY BLOWS TO
MILITANTS.
THE PRIME MINISTER SIGNING UP
VOLUNTEERS, WHERE THE TRAINING
IS LIGHTNING QUICK.
BUT WILL THIS RUSTY LOOKING HOME
GUARD DEFEND SUNNI IRAQ OR JUST
THE SHIA DISSIDENTS?
AMID SCENES LIKE THIS, IRAQ'S
ARMY IS BECOMING AN EVER MORE
SECTARIAN FORCE.
IRAQ'S KURDS, TOO, ARE FIGHTING
FOR THE KURDS.
BATTLING TO KEEP ISIS OUT, ALONG
THE 600-MILE BORDER, NOW.
NOT DEFENDING IRAQ SO MUCH, JUST
HOLDING ON TO WHAT THEY CLAIM IS
THEIRS, IN A COUNTRY WHICH STILL
APPEARS TO BE UNRAVELING, EVEN
IF ITS LEADER WON'T ADMIT IT.
>> Woodruff: THE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE AND THE NATION'S TOP
MILITARY LEADER WERE PRESSED
TODAY ON CAPITOL HILL ABOUT AN
AMERICAN COURSE OF ACTION IN
IRAQ.
>> WE HAVE A REQUEST FROM THE
IRAQI GOVERNMENT FOR AIR POWER.
>> Woodruff: THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
JOINT CHIEFS, GENERAL MARTIN
DEMPSEY, MADE THE SENSE OF
URGENCY IN THE CRISIS IN IRAQ
CLEAR TODAY, AS HE SPOKE BEFORE
THE SENATE APPROPRIATIONS
COMMITTEE ON CAPITOL HILL.
HE WAS JOINED BY SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE CHUCK HAGEL, WHO WAS
PRESSED BY SENATOR DAN COATS OF
INDIANA ON THE SEVERITY OF THE
SITUATION.
>> WE'VE ALREADY LOST THE
TERRITORY, THEY'VE ALREADY
GAINED CONTROL OF THE SECOND
LARGEST CITY IN IRAQ.
>> WE DIDN'T LOSE ANYTHING.
WE TURNED A PRETTY SIGNIFICANT
SITUATION OVER AS YOU NOTED, FOR
THE VERY REASONS YOU NOTED TO
THE IRAQI PEOPLE WHEN WE PHASED
OUT OF OUR MILITARY INVOLVEMENT
IN IRAQ.
AND SO WE HAVE DONE EVERYTHING
WE COULD TO HELP THEM.
BUT IT'S UP TO THE IRAQIS.
>> Woodruff: BUT PRESSURE IS
MOUNTING NOW FOR THE U.S. TO
COME UP WITH A COURSE OF ACTION
AGAINST ISIL, OR THE ISLAMIC
STATE OF IRAQ AND THE LEVANT.
IN HIS FINAL BRIEFING AS THE
WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY, JAY
CARNEY SAID THE OPTION OF AIR
STRIKES IS STILL ON THE TABLE.
>> THE ONLY THING THE PRESIDENT
HAS RULED OUT, AND I WANT TO BE
CLEAR HERE, IS SENDING U.S.
TROOPS BACK INTO COMBAT IN IRAQ.
BUT HE CONTINUES TO CONSIDER
OTHER OPTIONS.
TAKING DIRECT MILITARY ACTION BY
THE UNITED STATES WILL NOT SOLVE
IRAQ'S CHALLENGES, CERTAINLY NOT
ALONE.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA MET WITH
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS AT THE
WHITE HOUSE TODAY.
EARLIER, BOTH SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID AND HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER EXPRESSED
THEIR HESITATION OVER U.S.
INVOLVEMENT IN THE SPIRALING
CRISIS.
>> Woodruff: AND BOEHNER WARNED
AGAINST THE U.S. WORKING WITH
IRAN TO COMBAT SUNNI EXTREMISTS.
>> I CAN JUST IMAGINE WHAT OUR
FRIENDS IN THE REGION AND OUR
ALLIES WOULD BE THINKING BY
REACHING OUT TO IRAN AT A TIME
WHEN THEY CONTINUE TO PAY FOR
TERRORISM, FOSTER TERRORISM, NOT
ONLY IN SYRIA AND LEBANON BUT IN
ISRAEL AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: AMID THE CHALLENGES
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT FACES OVER
IRAQ, THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE
BECOME WARY OF HOW THE U.S. WILL
HANDLE IT.
ACCORDING TO A NEW N.B.C.
NEWS/WALL-STREET JOURNAL POLL,
THE PUBLIC'S APPROVAL RATING OF
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S HANDLING OF
FOREIGN POLICY HAS DROPPED TO
ITS LOWEST LEVEL.
IN DECEMBER, 2012, 52% OF THOSE
POLLED APPROVED OF THE
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN POLICIES.
THAT NUMBER IS 37% AS OF THIS
MONTH.
AS THE U.S. DELIBERATES IT'S
COURSE OF ACTION, THE WHITE
HOUSE HAS MADE CLEAR THAT IRAQ'S
SHIA-LED GOVERNMENT MUST DO MORE
TO  MEND SECTARIAN DIVISIONS IN
THE COUNTRY AS  PART OF ANY
SOLUTION TO THE CRISIS.
>> Woodruff: NOW, TWO SENATORS
WITH DIFFERENT TAKES ABOUT THE
NEXT STEPS FOR THE U.S.  SENATOR
TIM KAINE, A DEMOCRAT FROM
VIRGINIA, IS ON BOTH THE SENATE
ARMED SERVICES AND FOREIGN
RELATIONS COMMITTEES.
I TALKED TO HIM A SHORT TIME
AGO.
SENATOR KAINE, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: SHOULD THE U.S.
BE PROVIDING MORE MILITARY
ASSISTANCE TO IRAQ RIGHT NOW?
>> JUDY, THE QUESTION IS A
LITTLE PREMATURE BECAUSE WHAT WE
REALLY NEED, THERE IS A PROCESS,
THE WAY THIS IS SUPPOSED TO WORK
IS THE PRESIDENT WILL COME TO US
AND LAY OUT WHAT HE THINKS IS
THE PREFERRED OPTION AND THEN
AFTER CONSULTING WITH CONGRESS
WE'LL GO FORWARD.
I EXPECT HE WILL DO THAT SOON.
HE'S ALREADY BEEN IN SIGNIFICANT
CONSULTATION NOT ONLY WITH
LEADERSHIP AND WITH OTHERS LIKE
ME, BUT WHEN HE DOES COME, THERE
WILL BE HARD QUESTIONS.
MALIKI, THE U.S. WANTED THE STAY
IN IRAQ AND HE KICKED US OUT,
DIDN'T WANT US TO STAY, THEN
IGNORED ADVICE WE AND OTHERS
GAVE HIM ABOUT HOW TO GOVERN
IRAQ TO TRY TO DO IT IN A WAY
THAT BROUGHT KURDS AND SUNNIES
AND SHIAS TOGETHER, INSTEAD HE'S
RUN AWAY SHEENAS AND OPPRESSED
KURDS AND SUNNIS.
SO THIS HAS BEEN A PREDICTABLE
CONSEQUENCE IN MY VIEW.
HORRIBLE PEOPLE, DOING HORRIBLE
THINGS, HE'S GIVEN THEM AN
OPENING BY GOVRERNING IN SUCH AN
AUTOCRATIC WAY.
SO DO WE COME IN NOW TO BACK UP
MALIKI WITH MILITARY FORCE AFTER
HE KICKED US OUT AND GOVERNED
THE WRONG WAY WOULD BE FOOLISH.
WHAT WE SHOULD BE FIRST TALKING
ABOUT ARE THERE REFORMS THE
IRAQIS ARE WILLING TO MAKE TO
TRY TO DEMONSTRATE TO ALL IN THE
COUNTRY THEY ALL WILL BE TREATED
EQUALLY.
THOSE KIND OF REFORMS ARE THE
THINGS THAT HAVE TO HAPPEN
BEFORE WE DECIDE WHAT KIND OF
ASSISTANCE WE SHOULD PROVIDE.
>> Woodruff: YOU'VE HAD RAISED
A COUPLE OF THINGS.
IN TERMS OF THE REFORMS, PRIME
MINISTER MALIKI SAYS HE HAS
REACHED OUT, FOR EXAMPLE, TO
SUNNIS, HE'S BROUGHT THEM, HE'S
GIVEN THEM A ROLE IN HIS
GOVERNMENT.
HE SAYS, IN ESSENCE, IT'S
JUST WRONG TO SAY THAT HE HAS
NOT REACHED OUT.
>> VIRTUALLY EVERY OBJECTIVE
ACCOUNT THAT WE'VE HEARD FROM
IRAQ EXPERTS HERE, NOT ONLY
FOLKS CONNECTED WITH THE
ADMINISTRATION, STATE
DEPARTMENT, D.O.D., BUT NGO AND
OTHERS SUGGEST TO THE CONTRARY,
THAT HE HAS IGNORED THAT ADVICE
AND RUN THIS GOVERNMENT FOR
SHIAS WITH THE STRONG SUPPORT OF
THE SHIA-BASED GOVERNMENT
IRAN AND HAS DONE IT IN A WAY
THAT MARGINALIZED SUNNIS AND
KURDS AND THAT'S WHY THEY'RE NOT
COMING TO HIS AID RIGHT NOW.
>> Woodruff: AND SHOULD ANY
U.S. MILITARY OR SECURITY HELP
BE CONTINGENT ON HIS REFORMING
OR HIS LEAVING GOVERNMENT, FOR
THAT MATTER, AS SOME PEOPLE ARE
SAYING?
>> THE NOTION OF HIM LEAVING
GOVERNMENT, THAT'S FOR IRAQIS.
WE SHOULDN'T BE DICTATING WHO
NATIONS CHOOSE AS THEIR LEADERS.
BUT IF THEIR LEADERS ARE ASKING
FOR OUR HELP, IT'S VERY FAIR FOR
US TO SAY, WELL, ONLY, YOU
KICKED US OUT AND NOW YOU'RE
RUNNING THIS GOVERNMENT IN A WAY
THAT'S CREATING THE CONDITIONS
OF EXTREMISM.
THIS IS PT ABOUT BAILING YOU OUT
OF YOUR BAD DECISIONS.
IN TERMS OF CONTINGENCY, I WOULD
RATHER NOT DO CO CONTINGENT THIS
BASED ON PROMISES, BUT ACTUALLY
SEE THEM TAKE STEPS OF REFORM,
PUT IN A SUNNI AS THE DEFENSE
CHIEF, PUT IN A KURD AS THE
INTELLIGENCE CHIEF, MAKE THE
VISIBLE, NECESSARY REFORMS TO
DEMONSTRATE TO IRAQIS THAT IT'S
GOING TO BE AN OPEN SOCIETY.
>> Woodruff: AND IF HE'S NOT
PREPARED TO DO THAT, ARE YOU
SAYING THE U.S. SHOULD NOT
PROVIDE MILITARY ASSISTANCE?
>> I THINK IT IS A VERY HARD
CASE TO MAKE.
ASIDE FROM HUMANITARIAN AID WE
SHOULD BE DOING IN TANDEM WITH
REGIONAL PARTNERS, IT'S A HARD
CASE TO MAKE WE SHOULD PROVIDE
THE MALIKI GOVERNMENT WITH
MILITARY ASSISTANCE IF THEY ARE
NOT WILLING TO SHOW THEY WILL
GOVERN IN AN EVEN-HANDED WAY.
WHAT WOULD BE THE LIKELIHOOD
THAT IT WOULD WORK, PROVIDING
ASSISTANCE TO A GOVERNMENT THAT
HAS CREATED THE VERY CONDITIONS
OF INSTABILITY BY REJECTING THE
U.S., WANTING TO SEND HELP AND
THEN GOVERNING THE WRONG WAY.
>> ruYOUR POINT,
YOU SAY HE REJECTED U.S. HELP.
AS YOU KNOW, JOHN McCAIN AND
LINDSEY GRAHAM OF SOUTH CAROLINA
BOTH INSIST THEY WERE TALKING TO
THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT AT THE TIME
AND PRIME MINISTER MALIKI WAS
PREPARED TO ACCEPT U.S. TROOPS
STAYING IN THE COUNTRY.
WE'LL BE TALKING WITH SENATORCAE
INSISTS IT WAS NOT THE CASE THAT
MALIKI REJECTED U.S. TROOPS.
>> JUDY, LET ME TELL YOU WHY I
THINK IT IS THE CASE.
PRESIDENT BUSH SIGNED AN
AGREEMENT IN 2008 WITH MALIKI
THAT SAID U.S. WOULD BE DONE IN
2011.
HE WAS IN DIALOGUE WITH MALIKI
IN 2011 ABOUT STAYING.
ZABARI, THE IRAQI FOREIGN
MINISTER, STOOD UP AND SAID THE
UNITED STATES WANTED TO STAY IN
IRAQ AND WE TOLD THEM KNOW AND
WE MADE A HUGE MISTAKE WHEN WE
TOLD HIM KNOW.
ZABARI TOLD HIM HE HAD SPOKEN
WITH HAMID KARZAI AND SAID DON'T
MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE IN
AFGHANISTAN.
SO WHEN THE FOREIGN MINISTER OF
IRAQ SAID WE KNOW YOU WANTED TO
STAY BUT WE STIFF-ARMED YOU AND
TOLD YOU TO GET OUT, I THINK
THAT'S PROBABLY THE STATE OF
AFFAIRS, THEY DIDN'T WANT US.
>> Woodruff: SHOULD ANY USE OF
FORCE BY THE U.S. FIRST BE
APPROVED BY THE CONGRESS, IF
THAT'S WHAT IT COMES TO?
>> IT SHOULD DEFINITELY BE
APPROVED BY CONGRESS IN ONE OF
TWO WAYS.
THE FRAMERS OF THE CONSTITUTION
SAID IT'S ALWAYS CONGRESS THAT
SHOULD BE MAKING THE DECISION
ABOUT WHETHER MILITARY ACTION
SHOULD BE INITIATED, BUT IN THE
EVENT OF AN EMERGENCY, THERE WAS
AN UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
PRESIDENT WOULD GO TO THE
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP OF BOTH
HOUSES AND EXPLAIN PLANS AND IN
THE EVENT OF AN EMERGENCY, THAT
CONSULTATION WOULD BE INITIALLY
SUFFICIENT THAT CONGRESS WOULD
HAVE TO COME BACK AND GIVE THEIR
STAMP OF APPROVAL.
SO IF THE PRESIDENT FEELS LIKE
THIS IS SO URGENT AND EMERGENT
THAT ALL HE COULD REALLY DO IS
INFORM THE LEADERSHIP AND GET
SOME CONSENSUS BY HIM AND GO
FORWARD THAT HE CAN ACT IN THE
CASE OF EMERGENCY WITHOUT A
VOTE, THAT HE WOULD STILL LIKE
TO COME BACK TO CONGRESS AND GET
A VOTE FOR THE INITIATION OF
MILITARY HOSTILITIES.
IT'S THAT WAY IN THE
CONSTITUTION FOR AN IMPORTANT
REASON.
IF YOU DON'T GET CONGRESS ON
BOARD, YOU'RE PUTTING AMERICAN
WOMEN AND WOMEN'S LIVES AT RISK
WITHOUT DOING THE NECESSARY WORK
OF REACHING THE POLITICAL
CONSENSUS THE FRAMERS INTENDED
BETWEEN THE LEGISLATIVE
>> Woodruff: A LEADING
REPUBLICAN VOICE IN THIS DEBATE
IS REPUBLICAN SENATOR JOHN
MCCAIN OF ARIZONA.
HE TOO SERVES ON THE SENATE
ARMED SERVICES AND FOREIGN
RELATIONS COMMITTEES.
SENATOR McCAIN, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR JOINING US.
A NUMBER OF THINGS TO ASK YOU,
BUT LET ME START WITH THE LAST
QUESTION FOR SENATOR TIM KAINE
AND THAT IS THE QUESTION OF
WHETHER CONGRESS SHOULD GIVE ITS
APPROVAL BEFORE THERE IS ANY
MILITARY -- ADDITION CANAL
MILITARY OR SECURITY ASSISTANCE
FOR IRAQ.
>> I THINK THE PRESIDENT COULD
ACT IN CERTAIN WAYS DEPENDING ON
WHAT THE EMERGENCIES OF THE
MOMENT ARE, DEPENDING ON EXACTLY
HOW HE WANTED TO DO IT.
I THINK HE SHOULD CONSULT THE
LEADERS OF CONGRESS,
PARTICULARLY THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE MEMBERS, BUT I DON'T
THINK HE HAS TO HAVE A BLANK
CHECK OR -- EXCUSE ME, I DON'T
THINK HE HAS TO HAVE THEIR
PERMISSION.
SOME YEARS AGO, YOU MIGHT
REMEMBER, WE WOKE UP AND FOUND
OUT RONALD REAGAN DECIDED TO
INVADE A SMALL NATION CALLED
GRENADA.
BUT I WANT TO GET BACK TO WHAT
SENATOR KAINE SAID, I DON'T KNOW
WHAT HE HEARD ANYBODY GIVING A
SPEECH AND HOW MANY TIMES HE'S
BEEN TO IRAQ.
I HAVE BEEN THERE MORE TIMES
THAN I CAN COUNT.
LINDSEY GRAHAM AND I IN DIRECT
CONVERSATION WITH NOURI
AL-MALIKI, THEY WERE ALL READY
TO DEAL.
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS
OF STAFF SAID THE NUMBER OF
TROOPS WE WERE PROPOSING
CASCADED TO 3,000 WHEN IT
RECOMMENDED TO BE 20,000, AND BY
THAT TIME, THE LEADER OF
ESPECIALLY MALIKI DECIDED IT
WASN'T WORTH THE PROBLEM.
SO WHAT SENATOR KAINE IS SAYING
IS TOTALLY FALSE AND, IN FACT, A
LIE BECAUSE LINDSEY GRAHAM AND I
WERE THERE AND WE KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED BECAUSE WE WERE THERE
FACE TO FACE AND THE
ADMINISTRATION WOULD NEVER GIVE
A TROOP STRENGTH NUMBER -- THE
CHIEF OF STAFF, GENERAL DEMPSEY
TESTIFIED BEFORE THE SENATE
ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE AND
SAID THE NUMBER CASCADED -- HIS
WORDS -- DOWN TO 3,500.
AT THAT POINT, MALIKI AND
COMPANY DECIDED IT WASN'T WORTH
IT.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR, THOSE
ARE VERY STRONG WORDS ACCUSING
SENATOR KAINE OF LYING.
>> I'M SAYING IT IS A LIE TO SAY
THAT THE IRAQIS REJECTED.
IT WAS PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
COMMITMENT TO GET EVERYBODY OUT
OF IRAQ.
THAT'S THE OVERRIDING FACT HERE.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS SOMETHING
YOU HAVE SPOKEN ABOUT -- YOU
HAVE BEEN OUTSPOKEN ABOUT IN THE
LAST FEW DAYS, YOU'VE SPOKEN
ABOUT IT TODAY AND PREVIOUSLY ON
THE FLOOR OF THE UNITED STATES
SENATE.
WHY IS IT SO IMPORTANT, DO YOU
THINK, TO CONTINUE TO MAKE THIS
POINT TO TALK ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED IN THE PAST?
>> BECAUSE THE OPPONENT -- OUR
OPPONENTS AND THOSE WHO WANT TO
JUSTIFY THIS COLOSSAL FAILURE
THAT HAS CAUSED THE GREATEST
THREAT TO UNITED STATES NATIONAL
SECURITY SINCE THE END OF THE
COLD WAR, THEY'RE TRYING TO
JUSTIFY IT BY SAYING THAT MALIKI
DID NOT TROOPS
THERE, AND THAT IS NOT TRUE.
AND THE FACT IS THE OTHER POINT
THAT SENATOR KAINE MISSED HERE,
THIS ISN'T JUST A SUNNI-SHIA
CONFLICT.
THIS IS ABOUT THE RICHEST, MOST
LARGEST TERRORISTAN
CONTROL THAT IS DEDICATED TO THE
DESTRUCTION TO HAVE THE UNITED
STATES AND THAT'S THE WORDS OF
THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE AND THE SECRETARY
OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
>> Woodruff: AND, SENATOR,
WHAT DO YOU BELIEVE THE UNITED
STATES SHOULD DO NOW?
>> WHAT A NUMBER OF OTHER
MILITARY LEADERS HAVE
RECOMMENDED AND THAT IS THAT WE
GO IN, WE USE AIR POWER, WE GET
SOME BOOTS ON THE GROUND, A FEW
THAT CAN IDENTIFY TARGETS.
WE NEED TO GET SOME PLANNERS
OVER THERE THAT CAN HELP THE
IRAQIS REPEL WHAT IS GOING TO BE
AT LEAST SOME ASSAULT ON SOME OF
THE OTHER TOWNS.
I DON'T THINK THEY CAN TAKE
BAGHDAD.
AND RECOGNIZE THAT THIS IS NOT A
CIVIL WAR GOING ON.
THIS IS THE MOST EXTREME ELEMENT
OF THE EXTREMES OF JIHADISTS
THAT WANT TO DESTROY THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA.
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ALL ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: AND, SENATOR,
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THOSE
INCLUDING THOSE IN YOUR OWN
PARTY -- SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT THIS AND
OTHER MEMBERS IN BOTH PARTIES
SAYING THEIR CONCERN IS THE U.S.
GETS INVOLVED WITHOUT BEING
CLEAR ABOUT WHOSE SIDE ITS ON,
IT RISKS INFLAMING THE
SITUATION.
THERE IS IRAN, THE SAUDIS,
WHAT'S GOING ON IN SYRIA.
HOW DOES THE U.S. KNOW WHOM IT
IS SIDING WITH?
>> WE HAVE LEADERS, GENERALS WHO
KNOW THE IRAQIS.
THEY HAVE BEEN WITH THEM FOR
YEARS AND YEARS.
THEY KNOW WHO OUR FRIENDS ARE
AND AREN'T.
MALIKI IS TOTALLY AN ABYSMAL
FAILURE AND HE IS REALLY THE
CAUSE OF A LOT OF THE SUCCESS
THAT ISIS HAS.
HE KNOW WHO THESE PEOPLE ARE,
WE'VE SERVED BESIDE THEM FOR
YEARS.
WE CAN IDENTIFY THEM.
BUT MALIKI HAS TO SET UP A
GOVERNMENT, A RECONCILIATION AND
THAT HAS TO BE INCLUSIVE AND
HAVE TO LIVE WITH THAT.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU BELIEVE
MILITARY ACTIONS SHOULD BE
CONTINGENT ON THE PRIME MINISTER
TAKING --
>> NO, NO, BECAUSE WE'RE IN
IMMEDIATE DANGER MILITARILY.
THEY HAVE TAKEN MOSUL.
THEY NOW HAVE AMERICAN
EQUIPMENT.
THEY ARE TRYING TO ATTACK
BAGHDAD.
THEY HAVE TAKEN OVER -- THERE IS
NOW AN ENCLAVE,  A PALISADE OF
IRAQI AND SYRIAN, AND YOU CAN'T
LEAVE SYRIA OUT, THE MOST HARD
CORE TERRORIST ORGANIZATION WHO
PLAN TO DO WHATEVER THEY CAN DO
TO ATTACK AMERICA, THAT SHOULD
BE OUR FIRST PRIORITY.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE
COMFORTABLE WITH THE U.S.
WORKING WITH IRAN IN THIS?
AND HOW LONG SHOULD THE U.S.
STAY?
>> FIRST OFF, I DO NOT IN ANY
CIRCUMSTANCE WANT TO DEAL WITH
IRAN.
THEY'RE RESPONSIBLE FOR IEDs
THAT KILL AMERICANS.
HOW LONG DID THE WE STAY IN OTHR
COUNTRIES?
WE'VE ALWAYS LEFT BEHIND
RESIDUAL FORCES.
WE HAD THIS ONE, THANKS TO THE
SURGE, THAT WAS LARGELY
PACIFIED.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES WANTED US OUT AND I
PREDICTED WHAT WOULD HAPPEN AND
I'M SORRY THAT I WAS RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR JOHN
McCAIN, WE HEAR YOU LOUD AND
CLEAR.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Ifill: FEDERAL REGULATORS
HAVE OPENED A NEW INVESTIGATION
INTO A SECOND DETROIT AUTO-
MAKER, DIGGING INTO REPORTS THAT
AIR BAGS FAILED TO OPEN IN SOME
OLDER JEEP, DODGE AND CHRYSLER
MODELS, BECAUSE OF POTENTIALLY
DEFECTIVE SWITCHES.
SO FAR, NO DEATHS OR INJURIES
HAVE BEEN REPORTED.
THAT NEWS CAME ON A DAY WHEN
GENERAL MOTORS' TROUBLED RECORD
ON IGNITION SWITCHES WAS THE
FOCUS OF A SECOND ROUND OF
CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS.
>> FOR THOSE OF US WHO HAVE
DEDICATED OUR LIVES TO THIS
COMPANY, IT IS ENORMOUSLY
PAINFUL TO HAVE OUR SHORTCOMINGS
LAID OUT SO VIVIDLY.
>> Ifill: FOR THE FIRST TIME
SINCE THE RELEASE OF A CRITICAL
INTERNAL INVESTIGATION, G.M.
C.E.O. MARY BARRA FACED TOUGH
QUESTIONS ON CAPITOL HILL OVER
HOW HER COMPANY HANDLED THE
IGNITION SWITCH DEFECT NOW
LINKED TO AT LEAST 13 DEATHS.
BARRA SOUGHT TO REASSURE
LAWMAKERS.
>> I WANT THIS TERRIBLE
EXPERIENCE PERMANENTLY ETCHED IN
OUR COLLECTIVE MEMORIES.
THIS IS NOT ANOTHER BUSINESS
CHALLENGE, THE IS A TRAGIC
PROBLEM THAT NEVER SHOULD HAVE
HAPPENED AND IT MUST NEVER
HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> Ifill: ATTORNEY ANTON
VALUKAS, WHO LED THE INDEPENDENT
INVESTIGATION FOR G.M., ALSO
APPEARED BEFORE THE HOUSE
SUBCOMMITTEE.
>> THE STORY OF THE COBALT IS A
STORY OF INDIVIDUAL AND
ORGANIZATIONAL FAILURES THAT
HAVE LED TO DEVASTATING
CONSEQUENCES.
THROUGHOUT THE DECADE IT TOOK
GENERAL MOTORS TO RECALL THE
COBALT THERE WAS,
A LACK OF ACCOUNTABILITY, A LACK
OF URGENCY AND EXTRAORDINARILY A
FAILURE OF THE COMPANY PERSONNEL
CHARGED WITH SAFETY ISSUES TO
UNDERSTAND HOW THIS CAR WAS
MANUFACTURED AND THE INTERPLAY
BETWEEN THE SWITCH AND THE OTHER
ASPECTS OF THE AUTOMOBILE.
>> Ifill: VALUKAS SAID G.M. LONG
CHARACTERIZED THE IGNITION
SWITCH TROUBLES AS A, QUOTE,
"CUSTOMER CONVENIENCE ISSUE,"
RATHER THAN A SAFETY PROBLEM.
COLORADO DEMOCRAT DIANA DEGETTE
POUNCED ON G.M.'S RECORD.
>> AND SO THIS KIND OF BOGGLES
MY MIND.
A CAR COULD BE GOING DOWN THE
HIGHWAY AT A HIGH RATE OF SPEED.
65 MILES-AN-HOUR AND IT GETS
BUMPED AND IT GOES INTO NEUTRAL
AND THEN EVERYTHING STOPS.
THE POWER STEERING, THE BRAKES,
THE AIRBAGS
YET THE G.M. ENGINEERS SAID THAT
THIS WAS A CONVENIENCE ISSUE
RIGHT?
>> THEY NOT ONLY SAID IT
INTERNALLY THEY SAID IT PUBLICLY
WHEN THEY WERE INTERVIEWED BY
THE PRESS THEY SAID THIS WAS OUR
POSITION THAT A STALL DOES NOT
CONSTITUTE A SAFETY ISSUE.
>> I MEAN THAT'S JUST INSANE,
ISN'T IT?
>> I WON'T USE THE WORD INSANE
BUT I'M TROUBLED BY THAT.
>> Ifill:RA
NOW LAUNCHED A SAFETY CAMPAIGN
TO REWARD EMPLOYEES WHO REPORT
POTENTIAL SAFETY ISSUES.
BUT SEVERAL HOUSE MEMBERS,
INCLUDING REPUBLICAN TIM MURPHY,
REMAINED SKEPTICAL, EVEN IN THE
WAKE OF THIS MONTH'S
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT 15 GM
EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS WOULD BE
FIRED.
>> YOU MENTIONED, 15 WERE FIRED.
THAT'S 99.999%, IF MY MATH IS
RIGHT, OF THE PEOPLE ARE THE
SAME.
IF YOU HAVEN'T CHANGED THE
PEOPLE, HOW DO YOU CHANGE THE
CULTURE?
PEOPLE THAT ARE NO LONGER, THE
WITH THE COMPANY ARE THE PEOPLE
THAT EITHER DIDN'T TAKE ACTION
THEY SHOULD OR DIDN'T WORK
URGENTLY ENOUGH TO RECTIFY THIS
MATTER.
AND THEY ARE NO LONGER PART OF
THIS COMPANY.
THAT WAS A STRONG SIGNAL TO SEND
WITHIN THE COMPANY.
>> Ifill: G.M. HAS ISSUED 44
RECALLS THIS YEAR ALONE,
INCLUDING MONDAY'S PULLBACK OF
3.2 MILLION CARS FOR A SEPARATE
IGNITION SWITCH DEFECT.
>> Ifill: I AM JOINED BY DAVID
SHEPARDSON, WHO COVERS THE
AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY AS
WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF FOR THE
DETROIT NEWS.
WELCOME BACK, DAVID.
LET'S START WITH THE CHRYSLER.
WHAT IS THE SCOPE OF THE
INVESTIGATION WE HEAR ABOUT
TODAY?
>> 1.2 MINIVANS, SUVs, A
SIMILAR ISSUE AT WHICH HUNDREDS
OF COMPLAINTS, THE STALLING WHEN
A DRIVER'S KNEE HITS THE KEY,
SIMILAR TO THE G.M. CASES.
THE DIFFERENCES ARE NO REPORTS
OF ANY KILLED OR INJURED.
HOWEVER, SAME ISSUE THAT THE AIR
BAGS COULD FAIL TO DEPLOY IN THE
EVENT THE KEY MOVED OUT OF THE
"RUN" POSITION IS WHAT'S
PROMPTING THE GOVERNMENT TO TAKE
A VERY SERIOUS LOOK AT IT.
>> Ifill: MARY BARRA SAID
TODAY THEY NOW FIXED 199,000
VEHICLES.
SOUNDS LIKE QUITE A LOT.
DID SHE IN ANY WAY SATISFY
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TODAY THAT
G.M. IS TAKING SUFFICIENT ACTION
ABOUT WHAT SEEMS LIKE AN ENDLESS
ROUND OF RECALLS?
>> I DON'T THINK SHE'S SATISFIED
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS BUT I THINK
SHE SENT THE RIGHT MESSAGE THAT
THIS IS CRUCIALLY IMPORTANT.
YES, THEY FIRED 15 PEOPLE,
DISCIPLINED 5.
HIRED DOES OF ENGINEERS,
RECALLED ALMOST EVERYTHING UNDER
THE HOOD.
BUT SHE SAID WORDS -- YOU KNOW,
ACTIONS WILL SPEAK LOUDER THAN
WORDS AND WON'T BE RESOLVED IN A
WEEK OR A MONTH, G.M. WILL HAVE
TO SPEND A LONG TIME CONVINCING
THE PUBLIC, CONGRESS THAT THERE
IS A NEW COMPANY AND WON'T ALLOW
A PROBLEM LIKE THIS TO FESTER A
DECADE WITHOUT FIXING IT.
>> WE'RE HERE TODAY ABOUT THE
FLAWED CHEVROLET IMPALA, WHICH I
DON'T KNOW IF THEY MAKE THEM
ANYMORE, THAT SOMEONE REPORTED
THERE WAS A PROBLEM AND THEY
DIDN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT FOR
NINE YEARS?
>> IT'S CERTAINLY TROUBLING.
THE IMPALA AS INITIALLY DESIGNED
IS GETTING GOOD REVIEWS.
BUT IN 2005 AN EMPLOYEE SENT
G.M. AN EMAIL SAYING I HAD A
STALL, TO THE STADIUM ENGINEER
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE COBALT.
AND THEY DIDN'T DO ANYTHING
ABOUT IT.
WASN'T TILL MONDAY THIS WEEK
THAT G.M. RECALLED 3 MILLION
CARS INCLUDING THE IMPALA FOR
THE IGNITION OR THE
PROBLEM, SO IT RAISES THE ISSUE
THAT DESPITE ALL THE PROGRESS,
ALL THE RECALLS, THERE ARE STILL
A LOT OF ISSUES THAT ARE STILL
HANGING OUT THERE AND WHY IF THE
EMPLOYEE SAID, HEY, THIS IS A
BIG ISSUE, WE HAVE TO ADDRESS
IT, WHY DID NO ONE TAKE IT MORE.
>> A BIG ISSUE, INCLUDING THE 15
PEOPLE, INCLUDING THIS ENGINEER,
NO LONGER WITH THE COMPANY, TO
PUT IT OF, IS THIS A SERIOUS
RECALL.
>> DID THE SENIOR MANAGEMENT,
THE BOARD, THE C.E.O.s, HOW
DID THEY LET THE CULTURE EXIST
WHERE THE PROBLEMS DIDN'T GO TO
THE TOP, THE EMPLOYEES DON'T
TAKE NOTES IN MEETINGS ABOUT
SERIOUS SAFETY ISSUES.
THERE JUST WASN'T A CULTURE OF
THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT, WE HAVE
TO DO WHAT IT TAKES TO PREVENT
CUSTOMERS FROM BEING HURT.
YOU KNOW, I THINK, YOU KNOW, THE
15 PEOPLE ARE NOT GOING TO
RESOLVE IT AS THE CONGRESSMAN
SAID, THAT 99% OF EMPLOYEES ARE
STILL THERE.
BUT I DO THINK THAT HAS SENT A
HUGE MESSAGE TO PEOPLE.
WE'RE TALKING A VICE PRESIDENT,
SENIOR LAWYERS, A LOT OF KEY
PEOPLE IN G.M. WERE FORCED OUT.
>> HOW DO YOU CHANGE CULTURE?
SEEMS THAT'S MORE DIFFICULT THAN
FIXING AN IGNITION SWITCH.
>> A COMPANY AT G.M., 20,000
PEOPLE, THIS IS LIKE A
BATTLESHIP TRYING TO TURN
AROUND.
IT'S NOT NEW.
G.M.'S CULTURE HAS BEEN LIKE
THIS FOR DECADES.
THE COMPANY THINKS ITS OWN WAY,
VERY SOLID.
PEOPLE WITH VERY NARROW
RESPONSIBILITIES, PEOPLE DON'T
ALWAYS TALK AND THERE HAVEN'T
BEEN ENOUGH INCENTIVES TO BRING
BAD NEWS UP THE CHAIN, IT'S BEEN
EASIER TO PUSH THEM UNDER THE
RUG.
>> CONVERSATION, THE ISSUE FOR
PEOPLE WHO HAD PROBLEMS OR LOVED
ONES WHO DIED IN THE CARS, ONLY
FOR THE ACTUAL VICTIMS AND THERE
LIES THE RUB.
>> RIGHT, IT WILL BE ANNOUNCED
BY THE EN THE MONTH A
PROPOSAL TO COMPENSATE THE 13
FAMILIES KILLED PLUS THE 54
CRASHES BUT WILL NOT PROPOSE
MONEY FOR THE MILLIONS OF OWNERS
WHO THE VALUE OF THEIR CAR HAS
DECLINED AS A RESULT OF THESE
RECALLS.
SO THOSE LAWSUITS WILL GO ON FOR
YEARS.
HOWEVER, G.M. IS CONTINGENT
BECAUSE OF ITS EXIT IN
BANKRUPTCY THEY'RE SHIELDED FROM
THE LIABILITY OF THOSE OLD CARS
THEREFORE THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE TO
PAY ANYTHING FOR THOSE SO THAT'S
GOING TO DRAG ON FOR A LONG
TIME.
>> IS IT FAIR TO SAY THERE WILL
BE MORE RECALLS?
>> CERTAINLY G.M. SAID THEY WANT
TO WRAP UP BIG ISSUES BY THE END
OF THE MONTH, H 4 SO BUT I
EXPECT -- 44 SO FAR, BUT I
EXPECT A FEW MORE THE NEXT FEW
WEEKS.
>> Ifill: DAVID SHEPARDSON,
DETROIT NEWS, THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THAN
YOU
>> Woodruff: ALTHOUGH SNAKE
BITES ARE RARELY FATAL IN THE
UNITED STATES, EVERY YEAR ABOUT
100,000 PEOPLE DIE WORLDWIDE
AFTER BEING BITTEN BY VENOMOUS
SNAKES.
A CALIFORNIA DOCTOR HAS COME UP
WITH A WAY THAT MIGHT LOWER
THOSE NUMBERS.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
IMAGES MICHELS HAS OUR REPORT.
THAT MIGHT BE DISTURBING TO SOME
VIEWERS.
>> OH, MY GOSH!
DID YOU SEE THAT?
>> IN INDIA, CHILDREN SOMETIMES
PLAY WITH VENOMOUS SNAKES.
THIS ONE IN A YOUTUBE VIDEO MAY
HAVE BEEN DEFANGED, BUT IN THE
CHILD SNAKES CAN BE DEADLY.
(CRYING)
>> Reporter: IN FACT, VENOMOUS
SNAKES ATTACK MORE THAN
2 MILLION PEOPLE A YEAR IN
INDIA, ASIA, AFRICA AND CENTRAL
AMERICA IN RURAL PARTS.
MOST IN POOR AGRICULTURE AREAS
REMOTE FROM HOSPITALS.
WITHOUT TIMELY MEDICAL
TREATMENT, PATIENTS OFTEN DIE.
(SIREN)
MATT, AN EMERGENCY ROOM
PHYSICIAN AND MEDICAL DIRECTOR
OF THE AMERICAN AMBULANCE IN
SAN FRANCISCO USED HIS
EXPERIENCE IN TREATING SEIZURES
AND HIS TRAINING AS A
NEUROSCIENTIST TO DEVELOP A
FAST-ACTING TREATMENT FOR
POISONOUS SNAKE BITES.
HE DOES MUCH OF HIS RESEARCH AT
THE CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES IN SAN FRANCISCO.
HE SERVES AS A PHYSICIAN ON
ACADEMY EXPEDITIONS AROUND THE
WORLD WHERE THE HEALTH OF
SCIENTISTS IS OFTEN AT RISK,
SOMETIMES FROM SNAKEBITES.
IN FACT, IN 2001, A 38-YEAR-OLD
ACADEMY RESEARCHER DIED AFTER
BEING BITTEN BY A SMALL SNAKE
WHILE DOING FIELD WORK IN
MYANMAR.
VENOM FROM SOME SNAKES CONTAINS
NEUROTOXINS THAT PARALYZE THE
BODY INCLUDING THE RESPIRATORY
SYSTEM, AND COULDN'T
GET TO A HOSPITAL BEFORE HE
STOPPED BREATHING.
>> THEY WERE MORE THAN 24 HOURS
FROM HELP.
THIS POOR MAN, DOWN THE
MOUNTAIN, TAKING TURNS, AND THEY
COULDN'T SUSTAIN IT.
HE WAS BITTEN BY A VENOMOUS
SNAKE THAT COULD FIT IN THE PALM
OF YOUR HAND.
>> Reporter: TREATING
SNAKEBITES IN INDIA IS OFTEN
MORE EXPENSIVE THAN RURAL
FAMILIES CAN AFFORD.
TO COUNTERACT THE TOXINS,
DOCTORS RELY ON A DRUG COMMONLY
USED IN SURGERY.
>> EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD, IT'S
HEAT STABLE AND VERY
INEXPENSIVE.
>> Reporter: BUT IN THE HANDS
OF INEXPERIENCED PEOPLE,
INJECTING IT INTO A BITE VICTIM
COULD INDUCE HEART PROBLEMS.
INJECTABLE FORM OR
I.V. FORM, IT'S VERY TOXIC.
IT'S DIFFICULT TO HANDLE.
SO THE IDEA IS TO DEVELOP A
FORMULATION THAT'S LESS TOXIC
AND LESS PRONE TO COMPLICATIONS,
TO GET RID OF THE NEEDLE WOULD
BE A GREAT WAY.
>> Reporter: HE SAYS A NASAL
SPRAY CONTAINING THE DRUG COULD
BE USED SAFELY BY ALMOST ANYONE,
ANYWHERE, UNLIKE THE INJECTABLE
VERSION.
HE GOT THE IDEA FROM HIS WORK IN
THE AMBULANCE AND THE EMERGENCY
ROOM.
>> ONE OF OUR PROTOCOLS, WE WERE
USING NASAL SPRAYS TO TREAT THE
SEIZURES.
THE THOUGHTS CAME TOGETHER OUT
OF THE BLUE IN A CLEAR MOMENT
AND I THOUGHT, WOW, WOULDN'T IT
BE COOL IF WE COULD TREAT
SNAKEBITE WITH NASAL SPRAY?
>> Reporter: IT WOULD BUY
VALUABLE TIME UNTIL THE HOSPITAL
COULD USE ANTI-VENOMS TO TREAT
AND NEUTRALIZE THE POISON.
>> MOST WHO DIE FROM SNAKEBITES
NEVER GET TREATED IN THE
HOSPITAL.
IF YOU COULD GET TO THE
HOSPITAL, YOU WOULD PROBABLY DO
QUITE WELL.
>> Reporter: WITHOUT FUNDING,
HE AND A GROUP OF HIS SCIENTIFIC
FRIENDS DECIDED THEY HAD TO
PROVE NASAL SPRAY WOULD ACTUALLY
COUNTERACT NEUROTOXIN-INDUCED
PARALYSIS.
SO HE BECAME THE GUINEA PIG
WHILE A TEAM OF RESEARCHERS IN
SAN FRANCISCO CONDUCTED A
FULL-HOUR, SELF-FINANCED
EXPERIMENT.
>> INVOLVED ADMINISTERING THE
INFUSION OF THIS DRUG TO CREATE
A CONTROLLED AND SAFE STATE OF
PARTIAL PARALYSIS.
>> I COULDN'T SEE, COULDN'T
MOVE, COULDN'T TALK, VERY WEAK.
>> SO HE DEVELOPED SOME BLURRED
VISION, THEN DIFFICULTY
SWALLOWING AND AT THE LEVEL WE
WERE USING IT SOME SIDE EFFECTS
ON BREATHING.
>> THEN THE DOCTOR ADMINISTERED
THE NASAL SPRAY AND A FEW
MINUTES LATER I WAS QUITE CLOSE
TO NORMAL.
>> IT WORKED!
IT WORKED!
>> Reporter: BUT IT HASN'T
BEEN PROVEN IN HUMANS AGAINST
ACTUAL SNAKE VENOM.
>> YOU STAY WHERE YOU ARE.
I'LL MOVE THE SNAKE AROUND.
>> Reporter: SOME SCIENTISTS
SAY ITS BENEFIT IS LIMITED
BECAUSE IT WON'T WORK ON MOST
NORTH AMERICAN SNAKES,
ESPECIALLY NOT THE MOST COMMON
ONES IN THIS COUNTRY WHICH DON'T
INJECT NEUROTOXINS IN THEIR
VMS
AT STANFORD UNIVERSITY, DIRECTOR
OF EMERGENCY MEDICINE ROBERT
NORRIS, IS A SNAKE ENTHUSIAST
AND A FORM COLLEAGUE.
HERE HE'S WRANGLING A VENOMOUS
NORTHERN PACIFIC RATTLESNAKE
NAMED JAKE.
IT'S A COMMON NORTH AMERICAN
SNAKE.
>> THE DRUG WOULD HAVE NO
BENEFIT FOR A RATTLESNAKE BITE.
THE VENOM FROM RATTLESNAKES
CAUSE TISSUE DAMAGE, BLOOD
CLOTTING PROBLEMS AND POSSIBLY
SHOCK BUT VERY RARELY ANY
NEUROTOXICITY AT ALL WHICH IS
WHAT NEOSTIGMINE MIGHT HELP IN
SOME CASES.
>> Reporter: HE ARGUES THE
VENOM FROM MOST STATES ACROSS
THE WORLD ARE NOT AFFECTED BY
THE DRUG.
>> I THINK IT'S A NOBLE IDEA.
UNFORTUNATELY, I DON'T THINK IT
WOULD HAVE A GREAT IMPACT.
THE PERCENTAGE OF SNAKE BITES
THAT WOULD BE APPLICABLE TO ARE
PRETTY -- IS PRETTY SMALL, AND
WHETHER OR NOT IT WOULD EVEN BE
EFFECTIVE IN THOSE TYPES OF
SNAKES IS STILL QUESTIONABLE AS
WELL.
>> Reporter: BUT HE AND HIS
COLLEAGUE BICKLER DISAGREE AND
ADD THE SPRAY IS JUST A FIRST
STEP TOWARDS SOLVING A LARGE
PROBLEM.
>> NEUROSTIGMINES SPECIFICALLY
ADDRESSES THE VENOM OFES
LIKE COBRAS THAT PARALYZE THE
MUSCLES.
THAT ALONE WOULD HAVE A MAJOR
IMPACT IN TERMS OF A NUMBER OF
VICTIMS WORLDWIDE WHO DIE FROM
SNAKEBITE.
THE PARALYTIC SNAKEBITES ARE THE
VAST MAJORITY OF THE DEATHS THAT
OCCUR.
>> Reporter: SINCE STATISTICS
ON SNAKE DEATHS ARE SPOTTY, IT'S
HARD TO TELL WHO'S RIGHT.
THEY'RE WORKING ON THE PROBLEM
AND FINDING A DRUG OR
COMBINATION OF DRUGS, A
UNIVERSAL ANECDOTE THAT W
COUNTERACT VARIOUS KIND OF
VENOM, EITHER ADMINISTERED BY
NASAL SPRAY OR BY AN EPIPEN THAT
IS COMMON FOR GETTING RELIEF
FROM ALLERGIES.
>> WELL, THAT'S OBVIOUSLY THE
HOLY GRAIL, BUT THERE'S NOTHING
OUT THERE RIGHT NOW THAT LOOKS
LIKE IT WOULD EVEN POTENTIALLY
FIT THAT DEFINITION.
>> Reporter: ONE THING THE TWO
AGREE ON IS THAT BECAUSE IT IS
NOT A MAJOR PROBLEM IN THE U.S.
AND EUROPE, THERE IS FAR TOO
LITTLE ATTENTION OR RESEARCH
GOING INTO SNAKEBITES AND THEIR
TREATMENT.
>> Woodruff: READ MORE ABOUT THE
RESEARCH TO SAVE LIVES AFFECTED
BY SNAKE BITES.
SPENCER DETAILS THAT IN A BLOG
ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
>> Ifill: THIS WEEK, THE WHITE
HOUSE HAS ANNOUNCED THREE
SEPARATE EXECUTIVE ACTIONS
DEALING WITH GAY RIGHTS, THE
ENVIRONMENT, AND MANUFACTURING.
RAISING THE QUESTION: IN THE
MIDST OF PARTISAN GRIDLOCK, HOW
MUCH CAN THE PRESIDENT DO
WITHOUT CONGRESS?
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT DEBATE.
>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
BEEN EXPANDING THESE EXECUTIVE
ACTIONS.
IT'S SOMETHING HE PROMISED TO DO
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
>> WE'RE NOT JUST GOING TO BE
WAITING FOR LEGISLATION IN ORDER
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
PROVIDING AMERICANS THE KIND OF
HELP THEY NEED.
I'VE GOT A PEN AND I'VE GOT A
PHONE.
>> Brown: AND HE'S FOLLOWED
THROUGH, ON A WIDE RANGE OF
ISSUES, INCLUDING EQUAL PAY FOR
WOMEN, STUDENT LOANS, AND MORE
RECENTLY CARBON POLLUTION.
BUT EVERY TIME PRESIDENT OBAMA
DOES THIS, HE'S FACED BACKLASH
FROM THOSE WHO CHARGE THAT HE'S
AN "IMPERIAL PRESIDENT."
WE HAVE OUR OWN DEBATE ON THE
SUBJECT NOW, WITH:
JONATHAN TURLEY, A LAW PROFESSOR
AT GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY.
AND MICHAEL WALDMAN, PRESIDENT
OF THE BRENNAN CENTER FOR
JUSTICE AT NEW YORK UNIVERSITY'S
SCHOOL OF LAW.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
JONATHAN TURLEY, START WITH YOU.
YOU MADE THE CASE THE ACTIONS BY
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAVE GONE TOO
FAR.
WHAT HAVE YOU SEEN?
>> CERTAINLY, HE DIDN'T START
THIS PROCESS, CONCENTRATION OF
AUTHORITY IN THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH, BUT IT HAS REACHED A
LEVEL THAT FRANKLY IS A MATTER
OF CONCERN.
YOU KNOW, OUR SYSTEM IS DESIGNED
PRIMARILY TO AVOID ONE CENTRAL
DANGER AND THAT IS THE
AGGREGATION OF POWER IN ANY ONE
BRANCH, AND WHAT WE'RE SEEING,
PARTICULARLY IN THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, IS THIS RISE OF
AN OOBER PRESIDENCY, A PRESIDENT
THAT CAN GOVERN ALONE AND WHEN
THE PRESIDENT SAID TO CONGRESS
IN HIS STATE OF THE UNION I
INTEND TO CIRCUMVENT YOU, I WAS
SURPRISED TO HEAR APPLAUSE,
ALMOST SELF-CLOTHING APPLAUDING
A PRESIDENT WHO SAID I INTEND TO
MAKE YOU A NON-ENTITY.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU SEE
HAPPENING?
>> I'M CONSIDERABLY LESS
CONCERNED ABOUT IT AND I THINK,
IN FACT, GIVEN DIVIDED
GOVERNMENT AND NOT A HOSTILE
CONGRESS BUT A COMPLETELY
PARALYZED CONGRESS, THIS
PR MUCH
CHOICE.
HE'S USING EXECUTIVE ACTION
ESPECIALLY IN HIS SECOND TERM
THE SAME AS PRESIDENT GEORGE W.
BUSH AND BILL CLINTON AND REAGAN
DID.
HE HAS A DUTY TO SEEK HIS GOALS
AND ADVANCE HIS POLICIES, AGAIN
WITHIN THE CONSTITUTION AND LAW
AND INUBLIC WITHOUT SECRECY.
BUT I'M CONSIDERABLY UNTROUBLED
BY HIM ACTING TO REQUIRE
CONTRACTORS TO NOT DISCRIMINATE
BASED ON SEXUAL ORIENTATION AND
THAT KIND OF THING, WHICH
SOMETIMES SOME PEOPLE SCREAM
MUSSOLINI EVERY TIME HE DOES
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> Brown: IF YOU LOOK AT THE
NUMBERS, JONATHAN TURLEY, WE'VE
GOT A GRAPHIC OF RECENT AMERICAN
PRESIDENTS.
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE HE'S
OVERDONE IT.
IS IT A NUMBERS QUESTION?
WHAT TROUBLES YOU?
>> IT'S NOT.
THE THING IS, I THINK IT'S NOT
RIGHT TO COMPARE THE NUMBERS OF
EXECUTIVE ORDERS.
WHEN IT CAME UP THE LAST TIME I
TESTIFIED IN CONGRESS, I TOLD
CONGRESS YOU CAN'T SIMPLY LOOK
AT THE NUMBER OF EXECUTIVE
ORDERS.
YOU COULD HAVE A SINGLE
EXECUTIVE ORDER THAT CHINGS THE
ESSENCE OF OUR SYSTEM.
>> Brown: THE QUALITY OR THE
KIND, THEN.
>> YES, AND THE WHITE HOUSE
SAID, IT'S TRUE, IT DOESN'T COME
DOWN TO HOW MANY BUT WHAT TYPE
OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS THAT HAVE
BEEN ISSUED.
>> Brown: SO YOU'RE SAYING IN
THIS ADMINISTRATION, IT'S
CERTAIN KINDS THAT HAVE GONE TOO
FAR, NOT NUMBER.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> Brown: AN EXAMPLE?
THE EXAMPLE IS THE PRESIDENT
HAS ESSENTIALLY REWRITTEN SOME
LAWS LIKE THE HEALTHCARE LAW,
THE ACA, BY CHANGING ITS
MEANING, NOT JUST ON THE
STARTING DATE BUT CORE ISSUES IN
TERMS OF THE OBLIGATIONS OF
CLASSES OF PARTIES THAT HAVE TO
FUNCTION UNDER THE ACT.
HE SHIFTED $454 MILLION IN THAT
ACT FROM THE LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE
TO ENTIRELY DIFFERENT PURPOSE.
AND IMMIGRATION, HE ORDERED THE
AGENCIES NOT TO ENFORCE THE
IMMIGRATION LAWS AGAINST AN
ENTIRE CLASS OF INDIVIDUALS.
IT'S A RATHER LONG LINE.
IT'S A DIFFERENCE OF MAGNITUDE
WE'VE SEEN WITH THIS PRESIDENT.
>> Brown: MICHAEL WALDMAN, GO
AHEAD.
>> I DON'T AGREE WITH THAT.
THE LIST SHOWED HE IN THE FIRST
TERM WAS QUITE TIMID IN MANY
RESPECTS IN USING HIS EXECUTIVE
POWER.
THE NUMBER OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS
TELLS THE STORY.
IT'S NOT THE ONLY STORY.
SOMETIMES YOU COUNT CALORIES AND
SOMETIMES CARBS.
I'M NOT AWARE OF EXECUTIVE
ACTIONS HE TOOK AKIN TO SEIZING
STEEL MILLS AND OTHER KINDS OF
THINGS PRESIDENTS HAVE DONE IN
THE PAST THAT RAISED MANY
QUESTIONS.
AND A LOT OF THE THINGS THAT HE
HAS DONE HAS BEEN IN THE NATURE
OF THE TYPICAL THINGS PRESIDENTS
DO WHEN THEY'RE IMPLEMENTING
COMPLEX STATUTES SUCH AS THE
HEALTHCARE LAW OR MAKING
PRIORITY DECISIONS ABOUT WHAT
KINDS OF DEPORTATIONS TO DO AND
THAT SORT OF THING.
I'M ACTUALLY PUZZLED ABOUT THE
DEGREE OF HYPERVENTILATION THAT
SOMETIMES WE HEAR ABOUT THIS.
MY CONCERN FIRST OFF IS HOW WE
CAN GET CONGRESS TO NOT BE AS
PARALYZED AS IT HAS MADE ITS
ISSELF WITH THE SUPER MAJORITY
REQUIREMENT OF 60 VOTES TO MOVE
ANYTHING, AND I ACTUALLY THINK
THERE ARE THINGS THE PRESIDENT
HAS NOT ACTED ON THAT HE COULD
ACT ON.
ON VOTING, FOR EXAMPLE, HE'S
TALKED A LOT ABOUT VOTING
RIGHTS, BUT HE COULD DESIGNATE
DEPARTMENTS AS VOTER
REGISTRATION AGENCIES UNDER
EXISTING LAW AND HELP REGISTER
MANY, MANY AMERICANS.
I THINK THERE ARE THINGS HE CAN
CONTINUE TO DO JUST
UNTROUBLED.
I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY, IN MANY
RESPECTS, NOT ALWAYS BUT IN MANY
RESPECTS AN ENCOURAGING
DEVELOPMENT.
>> Brown: IN A SYSTEM OF
GRIDLOCK, WHAT ELSE IS HE
SUPPOSED TO DO.
>> I DISAGREE FUNDAMENTALLY WITH
MICHAEL.
THERE'S A REASON THINGS ARE NOT
GETTING DONE.
WE'RE A DIVIDED NATION, AND
DIVIDED ON THESE VERY AREAS.
WHEN WE'RE DIVIDED, FEWER THINGS
GET DONE.
SOME SAY THAT'S A GOOD THING
BECAUSE WE CAN'T COME TOGETHER,
BUT THE SYSTEM IS DESIGNED TO
FORCE COMPROMISE.
I THINK EVEN THOUGH MICHAEL SAYS
HE'S NOT TROUBLED BY THIS, I'M
QUITE ASTONISHED THE POSITION OF
DEMOCRATS ON THIS.
THEY HAVE RUED THE
CREATED THIS TYPE OF PRESIDENCY
WITHIN OUR SYSTEM.
THIS IS NOT GOING TO BE OUR LAST
PRESIDENT.
THE DEMOCRATS ARE ACTING LIKE
THE NEXT TWO YEARS ARE THE ONLY
TWO YEARS LEFT.
THEY DON'T KNOW WHO THE NEXT
PRESIDENT WILL BE.
>> Brown: LAST WORD, MICHAEL.
MIGHT THIS BLOW BACK THE NEXT
TIME YOU FACE A PRESIDENT THAT
YOU DON'T LIKE?
>> I'M SURE WHETHER IT'S
PRESIDENT RAND PAUL OR HILLARY
CLINTON OR WHOEVER ELSE IT MIGHT
BE, FIRST OFF THEY NEED TO
FOLLOW THE LAW, SECOND PEOPLE
WILL SCREAM OVER EACH, NO MATTER
WHAT THEY DO.
I AM CONCERNED ESPECIALLY WHEN
IT COMES TO FOREIGN POLICY AND
TERRORISM FIGHTING THAT
PRESIDENTS OF BOTH PARTIES, BUSH
AND OBAMA, HAVE REACHED BEYOND
THEIR AUTHORITY AND I AM
CONCERNED ESPECIALLY FOR EXAMPLE
ABOUT THE KIND OF SURVEILLANCE
PRACTICES IN THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH THAT WARRANT THE KIND OF
REACTION WE ARE SEEING FROM THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, WE'LL
LEAVE THE ARGUMENT THERE,
MICHAEL WALDMAN, JONATHAN
TURLEY, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: YOU CAN CHECK THE
"NewsHour" ONLINE AND SEE HOW
EVERY PRESIDENT FROM GEORGE
WASHINGTON ON HAS USED EXECUTIVE
ACTIONS.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
IRAQI SECURITY FORCES BATTLED
INSURGENTS FOR CONTROL OF THERY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA MET WITH
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS AT THE
WHITE HOUSE TO REVIEW OPTIONS IN
IRAQ.
AND THE C.E.O. OF GENERAL MOTORS
FACED SHARP QUESTIONING BY
CONGRESS OVER HER COMPANY'S
DELAY IN RECALLING MILLIONS OF
DEFECTIVE CARS WITH IGNITION
SWITCH PROBLEMS.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, HOW WOULD ARCHITECTS
AND ENGINEERS REDESIGN THE
COASTLINE OF ONE OF THE WORLD'S
MOST ICONIC CITIES?
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT ISSUED THAT
CHALLENGE.
ITS MISSION: TO SAVE NEW YORK
CITY FROM ANOTHER FLOOD DISASTER
LIKE SUPER-STORM SANDY.
YOU CAN SEE WHAT THEY CAME UP
WITH, ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL HAVE THE
MEDAL OF HONOR STORY OF RETIRED
U.S. MARINE CORPORAL AND VETERAN
OF THE AFGHANISTAN WAR, KYLE
CARPENTER.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT